---
layout: post
title:      "Embracing Possibility"
date:       2020-06-07 14:00:46 +0000
permalink:  embracing_possibility
---


Like many people, I’ve found myself with a lot of time to reflect over the last few months. While the challenges posed by the COVID Crisis have been daunting, I’ve also been grateful for some of what I’ve learned about myself in the face of those challenges.

It’s perhaps unsurprising that only after being furloughed was I able to realize how toxic my relationship to my labor has been. First as an English professor, and then as a librarian, I’ve had a tendency to conflate my sense of worth, and even my sense of identity, with the work that I’ve performed. Careers in education rely on the idea that teaching—whether at a university or a public library—is a true, honest, and noble calling; and it absolutely can be all those things. However, I’ve also come to realize that I’ve given up a lot in order to heed that calling. So, I’ve decided to pursue a new path; one that carries forward what I love about media education, but that also brings me a sense of real possibility.

Why, then, have I chosen software engineering as my new path?

Like many children of the 90’s I went to computer camp when I was twelve years old. My parents were, surprisingly enough, early adopters of the emerging internet, and I was lucky to have access to a 28.8 modem with which I could tinker on IRC and explore webrings about, well, anything. I was a naturally curious kid, and the internet was pretty much the (very ugly) digital Wild West at that point. I was incredibly bored at school, but the internet gave me an endless horizon of (very ugly) possibility. I’ve always loved learning for its own sake, as cheesy as that sounds, and the internet was, and is, a literal learning machine. I will always associate browsing the internet with a feeling not just of empowerment, but of enjoyment, too. And the early internet taught me that my affection for the culturally liminal wasn’t just valid, but in fact shared by others. 

Noticing this tech enthusiasm, and greatly over-estimating my actual tech aptitude, my parents probably figured that computer camp could set me up as a prodigy in the pre-bubble-burst Silicon Valley. For my part, computer camp mostly seemed like a good place to, well, be me. Where I’d been teased mercilessly the summer before at a traditional summer camp for being too nerdy, too sensitive, and too talkative (read: I was very gay, though I didn’t know it yet), I figured computer camp would be—like the niche corners of that early internet—endlessly affirming.

This was, of course, not what happened. But things were, thankfully, more interesting and more complicated than that. I still got teased early on, sure, but I also knew how to do things, and—lost among the other geeks—that counted for something. Sure, I might have been the proto-gay kid making *Sailor Moon* fan sites, but I was also the proto-gay kid making them pretty well with only rudimentary HTML, and that made a difference in the eyes of the other kids. More crucially, though, that early experience with not just utilizing technology, but also creating it in community, utterly transformed how I approached media. Technology wasn’t just a thing I used anymore, it was a thing I could play with, and a thing that I could—again, rudimentarily—motivate in new ways.

I didn’t know it, but computer camp brought about my first awareness that technologies can involve what the literary critic Eve Sedgwick called “texture.” “To perceive texture,” Sedgwick wrote, “is always, immediately … to be immersed in a field of active narrative hypothesizing, testing, and re-understanding of how physical properties act and are acted upon over time.” The experience of texture sure sounds, in my limited experience, like the process of coding. Textural perception, for Sedgwick, isn’t just about gaining a deeper appreciation for what a piece of media or technology is. Textured objects lead us to much more electrifying questions: “How did it get that way? What could I do with it?” Textured *technologies* call upon us to be more engaged in the act of making sense of things around us, and they compel us to become more active participants in making and remaking the world. This has only become truer since the 1990’s.

I became an English professor, and then a librarian, because I know that media and technology are utterly transformative. More than that, I know how vital it is for everyone to find texts and technologies that help us feel seen and heard, maybe in ways we never have been by other people. I don’t think that sense of identification and empowerment through technology is necessarily rare, but I believe it needs to be diversified and amplified, especially where technologies can bring a sense of affirmation to people who otherwise experience the world as uncomfortable or unwelcoming or dangerous. I would love to build technologies that, for example, help people to engage with local, family, and subcultural histories in a much more textured way.

In the past, I did my best to train students and library patrons to perceive the textures inherent to technology and media. Now, though, I’d like to actually build textured technologies that will inspire people to move towards the radical possibilities that are all around us. Training as a software engineer would, I think, give me the tools necessary to bring the textures of technology closer to hand, for everyone, so that we can all feel more emboldened to ask “How did it get this way? What could I do with it?”

